Describe the existing regulation in Employment, Ethics, politics, and the data science related regulation. 


In Mexico, the main data protection legislation is the Federal Law on the Protection of Personal Data Held by Private Parties, and its supplementary regulation, together they are part of the “Data Protection Legislation”. The Data Protection Law came into force in july 2020 and the Data Protection Regulation came into force in December 2011. Other relevant legislation containing data protection provisions includes:
Articles 6 to 16 of the Mexican Constitution
The Privacy Notice Guidelines, which govern the content of data privacy notices and obtaining consent for processing personal data.
The General Law for the Protection of Personal Data in Possession of Obligated Subjects governs personal data held by public bodies;
The Federal Consumer Protection Law governs certain aspects concerning marketing services.
Furthermore, Mexico is a signatory of international agreements on Data Protection , like the Convention for the Protection of the People Regarding the Automated Treatment of Personal Information. 
Globally, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requires security measures for processing data relating to an identified or identifiable individual located in the European Union.

Describe security strategies and their regulation


According to Mexican law (specifically, the Data Protection Law, organizations are compelled to implement corrective, preventive, and improvement measures to make security measures adequate to avoid a breach. Organizations should be able to differentiate between material and non-material harm under Mexican laws by conducting risk analysis. Compromising the security of databases, sites, programs or equipment ( and this include failure to implement required security measures) constitutes an administrative infringement of  the Data Protection Law, which could be sanctioned with fines of up to 25.6 million, a fine that may be double if sensitive data is compromised.
On the other hand and pursuant to article 106 of the Security Market Law and its general provisions, listed entities are compelled to report to the National Banking and Securities Commision (“CNBV”) all relevant events that may affect the value of its assets, including, of course, breaches of contracts, negligence or violation of other statutes such as the Data Protection Law. 

Identify the regulatory framework and institutions that affect the digital economy
With respect to the frameworks about digital economy in Mexico’s fintech law mainly regulates two types of companies: electronic payment institutions (EPIs, or what other countries call "electronic money issuers") and crowdfunding institutions. Under the law, both types of institutions are permitted to operate with virtual assets (e.g., cryptocurrencies) that are authorized by Bank of Mexico. The law also introduces a regulatory regime for open banking. As such, the law covers only two types of fintech companies from the universe of fintech players that are not addressed by the Mexican regulatory system. It does not provide regulatory guidance for other technology-enabled innovations in financial services, such as fintech’s offering balance sheet lending, big tech companies launching financial services, investment services other than crowdfunding, or central bank digital currencies.
